# Info. Studies 
## Blog 1 6.27.19

  [self portrait](self_portrait.html)
  
  Analyzing the content for the week provided new and valuable information. To think the world we live in today is entirely different than that of just a century ago is fascinating to me. The way we communicate, share and interpret information, and view the world in general has all stemmed from different technological advancements. From the creation of the telegraph and electricity to wireless telephones and internet, every facet of our lives is influenced, which is something we do not immediately recognize. Religion, culture, ideology are all influenced by these things.
  The first of this week's readings was “Technology and Ideology: The Case of the Telegraph,” by James W. Carey. In this reading Carey’s main purpose was to inform the reader of the history of the telegraph’s creation and how it played a role in the way humanity viewed communication from an ideological perspective. Two of the main ways in which the telegraph changed ideology was through monopolistic capitalism. In other words, business was no longer done just face to face, but business deals and transactions could now be done across the country. Transportation was no longer a necessity in executing human interaction. Another interesting point was how the telegraph even affected religion. Being a religious person myself I find this particular topic very interesting. As the telegraph was created many traditional religious groups tried to either justify this miraculous creation, while others even claimed it was the work of the devil. The idea of an electronic, intangible form of communication was formerly believed to be a power reserved for celestial beings. This advancement most definitely changed the world and even my personal day to day life. Later findings such as the telephone, wireless telephones, computers and eventually the worldwide web, all pieced together the digital age of communication we are familiar with today.
     These readings were extremely informative, and brought to light a lot of ideas that I otherwise would have never stopped to recognize. The miracle of digital communication is often taken for granted, but the reality is that we live in a world that just over a century ago, people could have only dreamed of in another universe. The steady development and progress of technology is fascinating, and makes me wonder how different the world could look a century from now. Perhaps one day future generations will look back and think of our modern world as primitive.

## Works Cited
Carey, J. (2009). Technology and Ideology: The Case of the Telegraph

Wu, T. (2010) The Master Switch: The Rise and Fall of Information Empires. Chapters 1 and 15, pages 3 -14, and 196-203

## Blog 2 7.18.19

 Recently an increasingly alarming topic has been the safety of our personal identity on the internet. As social media and smart phone usage has exploded, we are constantly uploading personal information to the internet and a lot of times we aren't even aware that we are doing so. Apps like facebook, instagram are just the start, but ridiculous amounts of personal info are made accessible through these media outlets. Apps can be used to track a users location at all times of the day. Even if that is not the primary function of the app, this data is still being collected. Users everywhere have raised concerns about this collection of private information. Something else that I learned during the readings that I found interesting was the fact that smartphones can also be used to tap into our every conversation. This made sense to me because simple functions such as "siri" voice command on the iphone are used to recognize and respond to the voice of the user. Even if the intentional function wasn't to track someones conversations, it can still be done easily with this type of technology sitting in our pockets.
  After reading this I started to wonder if this information is being used in any way to monitor people. Does the government, or schools have access to our personal info being gathered on our mobile phones? I can definitely understand why millions of people are not only concerned, but upset with this dilemma. Further illustrations showed that there is a literal industry of data collection that is growing. Senator Ron Wyden, Democrat of Oregon talks about this, and says that efforts are being made to limit the amount of personal data that can be collected and sold. The age of social media and mobile devices is still growing in my opinion. Despite efforts to prevent further issues I think it is inevitable so long as we continue to develop more advanced technology to satisfy the demands of smart phone users. It will be interesting to see how far this issue goes in the near future. 


## Blog 7.25.19

     In the article, "Your Job is About To Get Taskified", author Mary L Gray discusses how the online job market is increasingly important with the booming digital expansion we are experiencing. As the title suggests, online "taskified" jobs are growing. To be taskified simply implies the fragmentation of different tasks or responsibilities on websites. Taskification examples can include things like adding labels, verifying addresses, editing URLs and other similar tasks. Large corporations are paying people to fulfill these tedious yet important tasks. Often times these jobs are simply posted online for people to do. As this online job market continues to grow we will see a shift in the overall employment around the world. Unemployment rates can be improved due to an entirely new job market that doesn't even require people to leave their homes. Estimates state that nearly 30% of all jobs could be organized like this over the next 20 years. That would be an unbelievable shift in the current job market.
     With this new culture of taskification, new issues start to arise. In recent years some issues that have been witnessed prove that it may not be as simple as simply posting a small task online for anyone to fulfill. Working with someone you've never met can bring on a lot of different complications. Typically those who are fulfilling these tasks are not traditional "employees". Therefore, employee contracts are non-existent. Instead those fulfilling the tasks could be more accurately described as users or customers of these websites and corporations. Payment is obligated through "user agreements" which a lot of times can be over complicated and unclear.
     My opinion on the taskification of online jobs is that it is a great thing for the overall employment situation. As with anything there will always be problems and growing pains. However, as stated above if 30% of the job market can be changed for the better it is obviously a win. My only concewrn would be that of privacy issues but these types of things always work themselves out. Another plus I think would be that more people would see incentive in becoming more computer literate. With the opportunity to make money by simple coding corrections and online monitoring, I think a lot of people would be more than willing to take advantage of that. With almost every person in the world having some form of internet access I think it would be a great thing to encourage the taskification of jobs.
